# Process Documentation
## 9.30.19
My brainstorming process started with coming up with as many iterations on the formal elements (Player, Objectives, Rules, etc.) of a traditional shmup as I could. After jotting down as many as I could for each element I went back through and narrowed it down to a few ideas that most intrigued me. I was most drawn to the idea of making my shmup a co-op experience that required some sort of unique controls. From here I came up with a few player experience goals. 
#### Player Experience Goals
1. Players should feel like they must work together to succeed and should be rewarded for doing so
2. Players should find themselves in silly/humorous situations in which they must use creative/cooperative thinking to succeed
3. Players must vocally communicate in order to succeed

It's important for me that the game is cooperative and that players are provided with positive reinforcement for working together. I also want the game to be highly interactive and enjoyable for both players and people watching. I plan on implemeting these goals in a number of ways. Challenges the players must face include pressing specific combinations of keys to perform actions based on either predefined controls or information being presented on the screen. Players will also have to rely on their partner to perform certain moves. Additionally, there will be multiple levels of bosses that each require a different method of defeating. My next step will be playtesting different player controls and seeing which ones generate the most fun or interesting experiences.
## 10.7.19
After creating the base game from Chp 30 of the IGDPD textbook I've decided to go through Chp 31 which further adds on to the game and pick elements from it that I would like to include in my game. Changes I made include: adding multiple enemy types with varying movement patterns, adding different weapon types, and adding a scrolling background to the screen. I also made slight tweaks in the player movement settings as well as the enemy settings. I continued brainstorming different elements I would like to add in the final iteration of the game. I've settled on the idea of having players share controls for different actions (i.e. player 1 controls up and down movement while player 2 controls left and right movement) since I think this will lead to more unpredictable/wacky gameplay. I still need to finalize the controls for different actions like charge and change weapon as well as give my a game a theme (besides the default space theme). Additionally, I would like to add levels/waves to the game that have unique objectives. For example, I would like level 1 to be a test in control where the players must maneuver through a wave of enemies without getting hit. Subsequent levels will feature bosses that require a unique solution to defeat them. I will hopefully be able to add all these elements by the next iteration.
### 10.21.19
I've done some playtesting, made some changes, and now have my final iteration of the game. I decided to make the game three levels of increasing difficulty and added controls. After messing around with keyboard controls I discovered that outside of the letter keys, the reliability of getting combinations of keys to work across different keyboards is very low. I initially had my switch weapon controls set to LAlt, RAlt, LShift, and RShift but I figured out that the spacebar doesn't work on some computers when both Alt keys are pressed. This required me to change some of my controls, all of which are now using strictly letter keys. The biggest thing I found in my playtesting was that the levels were too difficult to survive so I had to adjust the number of enemies and waves accordingly. 

I'm very happy with how my game turned out and I think it's very fun to play. There is a lot of changes I could still make to improve it which I may do in the future. Future improvements would be adding additional levels, adding more mechanics like reloading and shield equip, and also a general increase in the complexity of the game. I would also like to re-theme the game in future and move away from the space aesthetic but until I'm very happy with what I made.
